---
num: "p03"
desc: "tbd"
---

[3] Joseph A. Co am, Suzanne Menzel, and Janet Greenbla . 2011. Tutoring for Retention. In Proceedings of the 42Nd ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE ’11). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 213–218. DOI: <http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1953163.1953227>

Navid S.

"Tutoring for Retention" researches exactly what the title suggests. At the Indiana University School of Informatics and Computing,
instructors were noticing low averages and low retention rates in their introductory cs classes. A group of professors decided to implement an undergraduate peer tutoring program to solve this issue. The paper's main study is to rigorously evaluate retention rates in later computer science courses after the implementation of the peer tutoring program. Additionally, studies were done to evaluate success (measured by final exam grades and homework grades) in the introductory courses. The primary goal of the tutoring program is to increase retention rates of the intro courses, future courses, and the entire major.\

Peer tutoring was help once a week, usually 2 or three tutors would be together in a lab helping students. Sessions typically lasted 3 hours. Free snacks were provided. During finals week two sessions were held. 70% of tutors were women (this was done in an effort to increase retention rates specifically for women in cs, an underrepresented group).

Measurements were given very rigorous treatments. Prior to starting the course, student's performances in high school math classes and sat/act scores were recorded. This was done to a class that had peer tutoring implemented and a class that did not. Next, course grades, homework grades, and final exam grades were recorded for both classes at the end of the term. Several linear regressions were done using R to produce informative graphs that indicated various trends. 

Significant results included the correlation between retention rates (of all kinds) and overall success in class (this was no surprise, but until this point there was no quantifiable data as evidence).
The main goal of the tutoring program however, was not accomplished. Retention rates did not correlate with whether or not students were tutored.
